Eating dogs is reviled in the United States. 

This seems uncontenstable. You can rattle off a whole lot of arguments 
to justify this conclusion. 
One that strikes a nerve for me is how this action has been weaponized
against the people of certain countries: most commonly China, Korea,
and maybe (?) Vietnam. Dog-eater. As if someone were less of a person for 
committing this act. 

From my experience, Chinese people are quick to respond to this accusation.
Not by defending the act, but rather by deflecting it onto other groups.
One of the most common is the eternal culinary punching bag of China: 
Cantonese people. 'No, where I'm from, people don't eat dogs. Cantonese people eat dogs. 
They'd eat anything that crawls, or if you look at what they scrounge
up from the seafloor, they'd eat plenty of things that don't crawl, too.'

Or perhaps onto Korean people: 'we don't eat dogs, I couldn't even bear 
the thought of eating dogs. It's people from *that* country, you know,
the historical, cultural backwater that eat dogs, not us.'

But if you turn around and look at Koreans, it certainly seems that dog-eating
has become quite unpopular lately.

a/n: Why is it difficult to get the raw data? All I can find on these
allegedly performed surveys is a manicured list of results, stripped 
of context. Bruh.

A definitely existing poll conducted by Nielsen on behalf of the 
Humane society International in 2020 found that 83.8% of South Koreans 
either have not consumed dog meat or they are not willing to consume it 
in the future https://www.hsi.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/South-Korea-dog-meat-poll-2020.pdf. (The scope of the conjunction is not clear to me, 
so I am taking the interpretation I find more reasonable. A problem 
for this is that I have no idea what percentage of people who have not 
eaten dog are willing to do so in the future.)

Moreover, they find that the percentage of people supporting a ban on 
dog meat was at 58.6%.

And this (seemingly real?) majority has been realized into law: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/09/south-korea-votes-to-ban-production-and-sale-of-dog-meat
With 208 supporting votes (out of a quorum of how many?), the South Korean
legislature passed a ban on breeding, butchery, and distribution and sale of dogs for meat
that will be enforced starting in 2027 (do laws
not require presidential assent in this country?).

Other laws restricting the use of dog in food have been passed in regions
in the area as well. Slaughter and consumption of dog has been illegal in Hong Kong since 1950 and in Macao since 2016.
Slaughter of dogs has been illegal in the Philippines since 1998, and consumption has 
been illegal since 2007. Slaughter has been illegal in the RoC (Taiwan et al.) since 1998, and 
consumption since 2017. Consumption has been banned in the PRC cities of Shenzhen and Zhuhai.

So, why has the tide turned against this practice? Looking at the recency of this trend in East Asia, you might scoff:
people are only imitating how Americans think. America is cool. Adopting American ideas is cool. To frame this in unabashed, undeserved Americo-centric
race rhetoric, you can call this 'internalized white supremacy.' Huzzah, I've managed to shoehorn culture war rhetoric into this article.

Two main problems: 1) Uh, East Asians are human beings and capable of independent thought. This is infantilizing. 2) This just shifts the question without
answering it: why do people anywhere find eating dogs particularly objectionable, largely in contrast to the more acceptable eating of other animals?

Argument 1) Dogs are pets. In the United States, and increasingly in East Asia, dogs are raised as pets. Their owners develop affection for their pet dogs,
and generalize their adoration for their pet dogs to all dogs- dogs raised for consumption, included. You wouldn't express indifference to the butchering
of foreign children, just because they weren't your own, right? (right?)

This argument is emotionally convincing. But, it's also rather arbitrary: it relies on the very specific fact that dogs have become viewed as pets in the 
culture you identify with. This is nontrivial, and there are plently of cultures where this is not the norm. Lots of people do not view dogs as pets: 
perhaps like vermin, if they are stray; or just as a means to defend property, a weapon, if they are owned.

And on what basis do you get to go up to such people and say that their moral system is wrong, that yours is superior, and you will impose it on them
by law, whether they agree or not?

Argument 2) Dogs are cute. But there's less of a visceral reaction, for some reason, to the consumption of other animals Americans generally find cute, 
like rabbits or squirrels, for instance (you might turn your nose at such things, but will you turn this habit into a slur? Maybe you will.) And at any 
rate, I doubt that people whose only bordering-on-positive experience with dogs is as rows of teeth they could sick onto the faces of homerobbers would
share this opinion.

Argument 3) Dogs are really intelligent, so they are capable of feeling pain, so their inhumane treatment and slaughter is exceptionally cruel, 
compared to other livestock. But pigs are hardly dumber than dogs, on a number of metrics [CITATION NEEDED].

Argument 4) Dogs were domesticated to accompany human beings. They are biologically predisposed to be affectionate toward humans. Therefore, their slaughtering
by humans ellicits such intense feelings of betrayal that the action ought to be regarded as exceptionally cruel.

Okay, sorry. It took me decidedly too long to get to the point that wasn't a strawman of people's positions.

Let's see if this is true. One thing I am wary of is claims regarding the internal states of animals. Can these be reasonably inferred from their behavior?
The idea is that if an animal exhibits enough specific behaviors that can be reasonably identified with human behaviors that are characteristic of an 
internal state, then we might be able to ascribe that state to an animal as well. This is quite complicated, if course.
The prototypical question in this domain is whether non-human animals feel pain, and by studying the behavior of vertebrates to physically damaging stimuli,
scientists have inferred that they do. Yes, even fishes. And perhaps this is true of at least certain invertebrates, as well.

So what's the consensus on dogs?
... I'm not sure where to even check for that!

Argument 5) The food dog trade is often unregulated compared to others. Many dogs are kidnapped, rather than raised for consumption, and their living
arrangements are often exceptionally poor. 

I think that any inspection of a factory farm would dissuade you of this notion.

Argument 6), regarding the Yulin Dog Meat Festival in particular, but perhaps generalizable: A lot of these places that treat dog meat as a spectacle
do not actually have a historical, cultural basis for the consumption of dog meat at all. They have taken on this practice for nothing more than outrage bait.
Outrage generates attention, and at least some of this attention results in people coming in person, making use of local goods and services, thereby driving
the local economy.







