The US government spent 1.563 trillion on major health insurance programs like Medicare and Medicaid in 2023,
as well as another 100 billion on the Health department. With this kind of spending, you would think that healthcare would be cheaply accessible to 
your average American citizen, wouldn't you? 

Well, chances are you don't. The American healthcare system's notoriety proceeds itself. Social media posts showcasing thousands upon thousands of 
dollars of costs for childbirth, surgery, and other operations are so common that, if I had a dollar for each one I came across, I might have enough
money to pay for a pregnancy upfront.

Smug Euros love to denigrate the USA for these bankrupting out of pocket costs. Is it deserved? Intuitively, a lot of people want to say yes:
The bar is already in hell; whatever's going on in those countries, it can't be worse, can it?

I'll take Germany as an example of a European country to compare with the USA. This is not just because Germany happens to be the one European country I 
care somewhat about. I also suspect that Germany is probably on the better side of things, as its welfare state is renowned enough to make its way
into the AP Euro curriculum (thank you, Bismarck!)

So, how does the German healthcare system work? Upon looking into things, I have found that it is more similar to the American one than I initially suspected.

First of all, the insurance system: Like the USA, German healthcare costs are balanced out by an insurance system. Moreover, this system is not single-payer:
It is not the case that there is a single, government-funded system with fixed coverages for all issues, for the entire populace. Rather, like in the USA,
there is a whole host of different health insurers with different policies for different purposes.

Here is where the systems diverge. German health insurers, or Krankenversicherer, are split into two categories: the public gesetzliche Krankenversicherer (gKVs)
and the private private Krankenversicherer (pKVs).

So what's the difference?


