On the upcoming election and whether you should vote for Joe Biden.

In some circles, there is contention whether someone left-of-centre should vote for Joe Biden or abstain from doing so.

People often time claim that the Biden administration has failed to address their interests.
therefore, they should not vote for Biden, as a way of signalling to the Democratic party that they should revise their policy. 
The Democratic party, as a political party, obviously wants to win elections; they have a clear incentive to revise their platform in such a case.

On the other hand, voting for the Democratic party demonstrates approval of their platform. The Democratic party learns that if they continue
their current trajectory, they can still count on people to vote for them. Your private grumblings about specific positions do not matter, 
as they can continue winning elections regardless. You do not see any movement toward having a political party representing your viewpoints.

Other people often invoke a lesser-of-two-evils argument to explain why a left-of-centre voter should vote for Biden (and, broadly, Democrats)
in the upcoming election, even if their policy position (perhaps broadly) disagrees with the voter's own.

They assume out-of-hand that the two party system is an immutable fact of the American political landscape. 
It is here, and you diverting your vote elsewhere is not going to do away with it; it will weaken the position of the Democrats, 
and by doing so, indirectly benefit the Republicans.

This choice of rhetoric involving a `change,' should one not vote for the Democrats, 
presupposes that the `default state of affairs' is for left-of-centre people to vote for Democrats. 
You not doing so reflects a diversion from the status quo in favour of the Republicans, and hence, if you do not vote for Biden, 
you can be held culpable for a stronger Republican position.

Of course, this is silly; you may have a track record of not voting for Democrats, or have simply not voted prior. 
Not voting for Biden in this case can hardly be termed as a shift away from the Democrats.

Well, the above excerpt misses the point. The actual argument that people pose is: assuming the two party system, (or taking the Presidential
election to be a microcosm of the two party system, i.e. the only options are Biden or Trump), the rational choice is to compare the only two
available candidates, policy-by-policy, and vote for the one of the two candidates whose policy positions are comparatively more closely aligned to your own.
(We know how comparatives work, right? This isn't to say that Biden's policy positions are objectively close to yours at all; 
rather, that on every conceivable metric, he is equal-or-less-far-away from you than Trump is.)
And this candidate is Biden, so you should do what you can to make sure that he is elected, over the single other, and definitely worse, alternative
of Trump.

Assuming the two party system truly is immutable, the above argument checks out, I think. We assume that one of the two will become president, 
so we might as well pick the less bad one.

Of course, this is a big assumption: is the two party system immutable? Is voting third-party truly 'wasting your vote?'

I hear that the two-party system emerges as a consequence of First Past the Post voting. It goes like this: 

Say you begin with a multipolar system at the beginning, but that elections are decided via first-past-the post. After the first election cycle, 
there is a winner and a runner up. People who had initially voted for hopelessly losing parties look at the frontrunners and think to themselves
"well, one of the two probably has a good shot of winning the next election, too. The one party I strongly identified with failed miserably,
so I won't vote for them again. They'll simply lose again - I would be throwing away my vote!" So, instead, they might support one of the two frontrunners
instead, whichever they find is more tolerable. And so the two frontrunners soak up the momentum in the second cycle, whereas other parties do not; 
this continues over the next few election cycles, where the now consistent front runners gobble up the stragglers, and we ultimately end up with a
two party system.

The lynchpin in this thought experiment is the step where the voter, seeing that their preferred candidate failed miserably, adopts strategic voting.
If nobody actually chooses to vote like this, then the two party system would be avoided. 

So why do people choose to vote strategically?

Well, the frontrunners have incentive to push this mentality on people! In the nascent two-party system, they will stand to gain political funding and 
time/power in government. Therefore, each frontrunner has reason to position the other frontrunner as 'fundamentally intolerable' and themselves as being
`the only conceivable way of counteracting' their opponent.

So, in a FPTP system, we can conceivably wriggle ourselves out of the two party system by... resisting the urge to involve a strategic-voting mentality.

But what about voting reform? Certain methods for allocating votes are more resistant to two-partyism than FPTP. This is true, both in computer simulations
and seemingly in real life. Look at the voting system used in various European countries, and look at the constitution of their parliaments. 
Then, compare that to the US or the Commonwealth countries. Big difference, isn't it?

So, we raise the question: in a country using FPTP, whose politics is already dominated by a two party system, how do we enact voting reform?
Unfortunately, the two dominant parties themselves of course benefit from the two party system 
(more chance at government & power does not have to be shared with other parties) and loads to lose from moving away from a two party system. 
They aren't stupid; nobody earnestly saws off their own legs. So... they of course won't earnestly champion voting reform; voting reform can only happen
if the governing parties already have no incentive to block it.

If we accept that the two party system can be reformed, the above argument is weakened considerably, but not fundamentally. 
If one can convincingly argue that electing Trump presents such an egregious shortterm danger that it 
1) outweighs long-term benefits of prodding the two party system, or that 
2) electing Trump would cause a shift in American political institutions in the wrong direction comprehensively and fundamentally enough to shift away
from ever achieving a more representative form of government, then you would have good reason to vote for Biden as the much-lesser of two evils.

Or perhaps more simply, perhaps it is the case that you are satisfied enough with Biden's current presidency and his policy positions to positively
throw your support behind him.

So, let us evaluate some aspects that, I think, are relevant to people's lives. I will split them into the following categories:
1) Directly impacts wellbeing
2) Minority considerations
3) Economical aspects (if important in light of 1)
4) Environmental considerations
5) 


